(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
Hi, I'm Thomas Allen Pauly,
I'm an equestrian artist,
I've been painting horses
since 1978.
My studio is called
The Fine Art of Racing,
it's located in the historic
Andersonville in Chicago.
(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
In 2006 I was chosen
by Churchill
to be the official
portrait artist
of the Kentucky Derby
that year,
and I did a painting
of Barbaro
and they made prints of it,
made 10,000 prints of it,
and people were just lined up
waiting to have me sign them.
(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
The brushes have
a tendency to just bounce
and dance all over my canvas,
where before I used to labour
with my paintbrushes.
This time I just put it down
and boom,
I go to the next colour,
put it down, boom,
it's almost Impressionist,
it's making me paint looser,
which is something that I've
been wanting to do for years.
(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
I can put the paint
exactly where I want it to go,
or drag it and make
a very nice sharp line,
where before
my other brushes
weren't permitting me
to do that.
(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
These brushes are
very very easy to clean.
You just, especially since
I clean up with water,
I just put it in there
and it just falls
right off the brushes,
and what's really really
nice about it is that
it retains its shape,
unlike the other brushes
where they would
just split apart
I can just put these here
and they dry very very fast.
(♪♪♪)
THOMAS:
The painting that
I was working on today
is a horse called Zenyatta.
She was a World Champion mare
that won numerous
Breeder's Cups,
and this painting is done
in Santa Anita
when she won
the Breeder's Cup Classic.
It's going to be auctioned off
the day before the
Breeder's Cup in November,
and it will benefit
the Permanently Disabled
Jockeys Fund,
which is a foundation
that I do a lot of work for,
I do a lot of
their graphic arts,
and it's really
a benefit that is dear to me.
(♪♪♪)
Captioned by GigEcast
www.gigecast.com